Skip to Content


Avatar
Learn CSS: Healthy RecipesBrief
Objective
LEARN CSS
Healthy Recipes
Using CSS selectors, you’ll give a recipe website some new style!

If you get stuck during this project or would like to see an experienced developer work through it, click “Get Unstuck“ to see a project walkthrough video.

Tasks
7/7 Complete
Mark the tasks as complete by checking them off
1.
Before you begin, take a look at the site’s structure in index.html.

Start by making the image at the top of the page a little smaller. Navigate to style.css and write a CSS selector for the img tag.

Within its curly braces, write:

height: 150px;
Try experimenting with the 150 number and observing the results.


Hint
To select the img tag, use the following selector:

img {
 
}
2.
The font size of the recipe description should be larger. In style.css, write a CSS selector for the .description class.

Within its curly braces, add the following CSS:

font-size: 20px;

Hint
To select a class named main, the syntax would be:

.main {
 
}
3.
Next, let’s style the cooking time. The element on line 15 of index.html has an id attribute of cook-time. Navigate to style.css and add a cook-time ID selector.

Inside of its curly braces, write:

font-weight: bold;

Hint
The syntax for an ID selector uses a # before the ID name:

#element-id {
 
}
4.
Now, let’s change the bullet points of the ingredient list to squares instead of circles. Start by writing a selector for the li elements inside of the .ingredients element.

Then, write this inside of its curly braces:

list-style: square;

Hint
To select elements within a parent element, use a space between the selectors.

Be sure to put the outside parent element before the child element:

parent-element child-element {
 
}
5.
Next let’s make the time for each preparation step appear gray. In style.css, write a selector for p elements that also have a class of .time.

Then, inside of this selector’s curly braces, write:

color: gray;

Hint
To select tag elements with a specific class, chain the class selector to the end of the element selector with no space between:

element.class {
 
}
6.
At the bottom of the page, there’s a link to the full recipe. Let’s make the link a different color.

Notice that in index.html, on line 42, there is a p element with a class of citation, then an a element inside of it with a class of external-link. Navigate to style.css and write a selector using external-link class.

Then, add this code inside of the selector’s curly braces:

color: SeaGreen;

Hint
Class selectors use a . before the class name:

.class-name {
 
}
7.
Finally, let’s make the font Helvetica instead of the default Times New Roman. Instead of writing multiple selectors to apply the font-family property, write a selector that applies a font-family attribute to all text at once.

The selector should target the h1, h2, p, and li elements.

To change their font, include this line of code inside the curly braces:

font-family: Helvetica;

Hint
You can add the same styles to many elements by separating the selector targets with commas:

element1, element2, ... {
 
}

Code Editor

files
index.html
style.css

Code Editor

Web Browser
http://localhost:8000/

7/7 Complete
Back
Next