Skip to Content


Avatar
TypographyBrief
Objective
INTERMEDIATE CSS: COLORS AND TYPOGRAPHY
Typography
Aoife Conleavy is a novelist who has been writing about her travels for nearly two decades. Before the launch of her new novel Tide Blade, which features the stories of real-life characters in Morocco, the author wants to spruce up her professional website. You’ll modify the typography on her site, changing the size, style, and font families, to make the page easier to read.

Using your understanding of typography, help Aoife Conleavy improve the readability of her site for her readers.

Tasks
9/9 Complete
Mark the tasks as complete by checking them off
Morocco
1.
The header section of Aoife Conleavy’s site contains the author’s name, along with the text “Travels”, “Fiction”, and “Contact”.

Change the font-weight of the header so that the text appears bold.


Hint
font-weight will accept bold as a value:

selector {
  font-weight: bold;
}
2.
Moving down the page, the banner section contains a stunning image, two blocks of text, an h2 tag with the text “DEC 20XX”, and an h1 tag with the text “Morocco”.

Give the h2 tag a font weight of 500 and the h1 tag a font weight of 900.


Hint
Numeric font-weights are set with no units. To set a font-weight of 100, you can use this format:

selector {
  font-weight: 100;
}
3.
After reviewing the project, the author suggests that the line height seems a bit off and needs to be altered throughout the page.

Work down the page and set line-height of the following page elements as recommended:

The paragraph within the journal section should have a line height of 1.4 times the font size.
The first letter of the journal section should have a line height of .87 times the font size.
The quote should have a line height of 1.2 times the font size.
The footer content should have a line height 1.5 times the font size.

Hint
line-height can be set as a ratio when no units are supplied with its value. For instance, to set a line-height of two times the font-size, you could use a rule like this:

selector {
  line-height: 2;
}
4.
The site currently uses common serif and sans-serif fonts found on users’ computers. Since the author first published the site, a number of new font libraries have created fonts that you think would be a better fit for the site.

Using the Google Fonts API, add the following fonts to the index.html file:

Abril Fatface
Work Sans in font-weight 400, 500, and 800.
Merriweather in font-weight 400 and 400 italic
You may either link these fonts in a single <link> tag, or three separate <link> tags.


Hint
Select the three fonts and the correct weights from the API. Use the provided <link> tag in the <header> to link the fonts to your page.

5.
You can now use the newly added fonts from Google Fonts within our project. Moving down the page again, set the font-family and property as recommended:

Set the typeface of the h2 tag in the banner section to "Work Sans"
Set the typeface of the h1 tag in the banner section to "Abril Fatface"
Set the typeface of the journal section to Work Sans
Set the typeface of the photo caption to Merriweather

Hint
font-family can be set in a CSS rule set:

selector {
  font-family: 'Font-name';
}
6.
The page looks great, but you also have to account for users who may not be able to access the Google Fonts. Find them several fallback fonts to use in case they are restricted from accessing fonts from a third party:

Set the fallback fonts as follows:

h2 tag in the banner section: "Arial" and sans-serif
h1 tag in the banner section: sans-serif
The journal section: serif
The photo caption: serif

Hint
serif or sans-serif can be set as fallbacks in font-family, separated by a ,:

selector {
  font-family: 'Font-name', serif;
}
7.
Instead of linking the font from index.html, you realize it would be a better to import Google fonts in the files directly into stylesheets with the @font-face property.

Use the @font-face property to import the fonts directly to the stylesheets, and remove the <link> tags that reference the Google fonts from the index.html page.


Hint
Copy and paste the @font-face rule from the

/* latin */
sections of the rule set at the href of the font from Google. For instance, the href for ‘Roboto’ returns a series of @font-face rules. Include the latin section for each font and font-weight that you need.

8.
Looking at the page, the author suggests the page really come together if we used a specific font, CroissantOne-Regular.ttf, in the footer. The files have been downloaded and added to our project within the fonts directory within the styles/ directory where our CSS files are stored.

To complete the task you need to use the @font-face property to make these fonts accessible in the stylesheets. Name the font "Croissant One".


Hint
To use a font, you’ll need to set the font-family and src properties.

To use, src, remember that you need the url function with a relative path. In this case, your relative path is in the fonts directory, so setting its path would look some like

@font-face {
  src: url("fonts/FontFile.ttf");
}
9.
Now that you have a @font-face rule, set the font-family property of the footer to "Croissant One" with "Merriweather" and serif as the fallback fonts.


Hint
Fallback fonts are set via the font-family property and separated by commas:

selector {
  font-family: 'Font-name-1', 'Font-name-2', serif;
}

Code Editor

files
styles
fonts
reset.css
style.css
index.html

Code Editor

Web Browser
https://localhost/

9/9 Complete
Back
Next